I'm here to offer you a new way to think
about my field artificial intelligence I
think the purpose of AI is to empower
humans with machine intelligence and as
machines get smarter we get smarter
I call this humanistic AI artificial
intelligence designed to meet human
needs by collaborating and augmenting
people now today I'm happy to see that
the idea of an intelligent assistant is
mainstream it's the well accepted
metaphor for the interface between
humans and AI and the one I helped
create is called Siri now you know Siri
Siri is the thing that knows your intent
and helps you do it for you helps you
get things done but what you might not
know is that we design theory as
humanistic AI to augment people with a
conversational interface that made it
possible for them to use mobile
computing regardless of who they were
and their abilities now for most of us
the impact of this technology is to make
things a little bit easier to use but
for my friend Daniel the impact of the
AI in these systems is a life changer
you see Daniel is really social guy and
he's blind and quadriplegic which makes
it hard to use those devices that we all
take for granted the last time I was at
his house his brother said hang on a
second Daniel's not ready he's on the
phone with a woman he met online what
that's cool how'd he do it
well Daniel uses theory to manage his
own social life his email text and phone
without depending on his caregivers this
is kind of interesting right the irony
here is great here's the man whose
relationship with AI helps him have
relationships with genuine human beings
and this is humanistic AI another
example with life-changing consequences
is diagnosing cancer when a doctor
suspects cancer they take a sample sent
in to a pathologist who looks at it
under a microscope right now a
pathologist look at hundreds of slides
and millions of cells every day so that
support this task some researchers made
an AI classifier and the classifier says
is this a cancer is this not cancer
right looking at the pictures the
classifier was pretty good but not as
good as the person who got it right most
of the time but when they combined the
ability of the Machine and the human
together accuracy went to 99.5% adding
that AI to a partnership eliminated 85%
of the errors that the human
pathologists would have made working
alone that's a lot of cancer that what
if otherwise gone untreated now for the
curious it turns out that the human was
better at rejecting false positives and
the machine was better at recognizing
those hard to spot cases but the lesson
here isn't about which agent is better
at this image classification tasks those
things are changing every day the lesson
here is that by combining the abilities
of the human and machine it created a
partnership that had superhuman
performance and that is humanistic AI
now let's look at another example with
the turbocharging performance this is
design now let's say you're engineer you
want to design a new frame for a drum
you get out your favorite software tools
CAD tools and you enter the form and the
materials and then you analyze
performance that gives you one design if
you give those same tools to an AI it
can generate thousands of designs this
video by Autodesk is amazing this is
real stuff
so now this transforms how we do design
the human engineer now says what the
machine what they design should achieve
and the machine says here's the
possibilities now in her job now the
engineers job is to pick the one that
best meets the goals of the design which
she knows as a human better than anyone
else using human judgment and expertise
in this case the winning form looks kind
of like something nature would have
designed - a few million years of
evolution and all that unnecessary fur
now let's see where this idea of
humanistic AI might lead us if we follow
it into the speculative beyond what's
the kind of augmentation that we would
all like to have
well how about cognitive enhancement
instead of asking how smart can we make
our machines let's ask how smart can our
machines make us I mean take memory for
example memory is the foundation of
human intelligence but human memory is
famously flawed we're great at telling
stories but not giving any details right
and our memories they decay over time I
mean like where did the 60s go and can I
go there too but what if you could have
a memory that was as good as computer
memory and is about your life what if
you could remember every person you ever
met how to pronounce their name the
family details their favorite sport
the last conversation you had with them
if you had this memory all your life you
could have the AI look at all the
interactions you have with people over
time and help you reflect on the long
arc of your relationships what if you
could have the AI read everything you've
ever read and listen to every song
you've ever heard from the tiniest clue
it could help you retrieve anything
you've ever seen or heard before
imagine what would I do for the ability
to make new connections and form new
ideas
and what about our bodies what if you
could remember the consequences of every
food we eat every pill we take every
all-nighter we pull we could do our own
science on our own data about what makes
us feel good and stay healthy and
imagine how this could revolutionize the
way we manage allergies and chronic
disease I believe that a I will make
personal memory enhancement a reality I
can't say when or what form factors are
involved but I think it's inevitable
because the very things that make AI
successful today the availability of
comprehensive data and the availability
for machines to make sense of that data
can be applied to the data of our lives
and those data are here today available
for all of us because we lead digitally
mediated lives in mobile and online in
my view a personal memory is a private
memory we get to choose what is and is
not recalled and retained it's
absolutely essential that this be kept
very secure now for most of us the
impact of augmented personal memory will
be a more improved mental game maybe
hopefully a bit more social grace but
for the millions who suffer from
Alzheimer's and dementia the difference
that augmented memory could make is a
difference between a life of isolation
and a life of dignity and connection we
are in the middle of a renaissance in
artificial intelligence right now I mean
just the past few years we're beginning
to see solutions to AI problems that we
have struggled with literally for
decades speech understanding text
understanding image understanding we
have a choice in how we use this
powerful technology
we can choose to use AI to automate and
compete with us or we can use AI to
augment and collaborate with us to
overcome our cognitive limitations and
to help us do what we want to do only
better and as we discover new ways to
give machines intelligence we can
distribute that intelligence to all of
the AI assistants in the world and
therefore to every person regardless of
circumstance and that is why every time
a machine gets smarter we get smarter
that is an AI worth spreading thank you
[Applause]